---
published: false
---
## A New Post


I take up too much space in this world.

Right now, I’m taking up your attention to talk about what it's like to be me. Wouldn’t it be far more valuable for you to know what it's like to be the father of the bright child in southern India who killed herself because she didn’t have a smartphone to attend her online classes? How does the father of such a child, a daily wage laborer and supporter of the family and the person who couldn’t give her daughter that damned smartphone - how does he continue to live after something like that? What are the minute details of his everyday experience, and what might that tell us about the society we’ve built? Like I said, far more valuable. 

I’m drinking a glass of water at home and thinking about how, at my rented house in Delhi, each time I’d drink water I’d remember the news headline that said Delhi will run out of groundwater in 2020. There are reminders on Twitter about hydrating and taking care of myself and how is that not objectively a cruel joke? I should hydrate and eat well and go to therapy and do everything within my power to be happy, when water will run out soon in this city and people will die thirsty and I, with my ability to purchase a lifetime of Bisleri 20litre cans, will never really feel it happen. 

In other places of the world with better standards of living, people are perhaps able to go about their lives without feeling an enormous amount of guilt. But in India right now, the standard human experience is very, very far from my own and of those around me, and I don’t know how to live with that guilt. Don’t worry about me for a second, though. I have cognitive behavioral therapy to tell me that my guilt comes from untrue thoughts - there are many ways in which I’m not responsible for what’s happening in my life and in the world, especially in the middle of a crisis. But who will sit with the father of this child and tell him it's not his fault that he couldn’t buy his daughter a smartphone? Who will give him homework to overcome his guilt and feel better? He needs it a lot more right now than I do, doesn’t he? Far more valuable. 

Perhaps you’re thinking I’d be well-advised to unplug from the news cycle as well. Of course, it's too depressing. I gotta take care of myself. We recognize, us privileged ones, that all thoughts, all events of the world, come down in the end to how we experience them. It is our experience that is the fundamental unit of value, and our experience that must be protected and nurtured - through hydration, unplugging, meditation and whatnot. 

The unplugging does seem like such a wonderful idea. To take the time and relax, to binge-watch TV and solve crosswords, to do passion projects - that is what I want. My conviction leans towards a life of creativity and leisure, of listening only to my own desires. But there is always the nagging feeling that doing what I want is the hallmark of my privilege. I see in myself then the equivalent of a billionaire dude on a beach wearing blue boxers and black sunglasses who doesn’t tip their waiter and gets angry that the lemonade doesn’t have enough ice. I don’t know about you, but in the woke culture that I belong to, that dude is pretty much the worst thing you can be. 

There is no one part of me that wins out in this conflict of selves. Rather, this double whammy is the very texture of my privilege. You shouldn’t be here right now reading about this because of course, it is my privilege that earns me the access to this space and your attention and we want to reverse these injustices not further them, but if you are here then I can’t really do much about it. Maybe that’s not true, maybe I can. But I don’t want to. And I do feel bad about not wanting to. You see what I’m saying?

Privilege is a double movement - between exercising it and feeling bad about doing so, or refraining from it stoically and feeling like that’s not nearly enough. It infiltrates every little detail about my existence and calls it into question and then forces me to affirm it. I am then living around not objects but unstable, questionable choices - my branded t-shirt, my Kent glass of water, my comfortable mattress, my sense of well-being. 

About that last one - I’ll admit I don’t really feel like being happy. A dull kinda mood where I go about my day job and then come home to a pretty standard household and go to sleep? That sounds more like it. Happiness, on top of all the coveted things I already have right now, is a bit much for one person if you ask me. There needs to be some semblance of balance in the universe.  I want to round off my mood to more like the national average.

Does that make me a strange person? I think it should be—and probably is—a perfectly normal thing to feel. Happiness is a very resource-intensive good, and it's not a one-time purchase. You have to keep nurturing it by creating surroundings that allow for it to occur. You need to have a job you can stand and some friends and some sense of peace with family and a thing you’re aspiring towards and no tragic traumatic thing happening in your life. And then if you have all these things, your brain can still convince you that you’re worthless so you have to do therapy and talk to whoever you talk to. All of this, it's obvious, takes an enormous amount of privilege, and it feels as self-indulgent as hydrating yourself with 4 litres of precious Delhi water in a day. 

I confessed this to my partner one day who struggles with similar topics, having gone through the same routine liberal-arts journey of privilege-consciousness. She pushed me to think about who I was helping by being unhappy. I can mope around all I want but that’s going to make nothing better unless I’m also using all that time to make things better which I’m most certainly not. Furthermore, she added, I could be causing harm to the people around me by denying them my feel-good self. I am adding to this world a net total of more sadness, and while that may be a trickle in the ocean of the world’s suffering, it's not very good faith on my part. 

I understand that is very sensible of her. I am not helping anyone by refusing happiness, and perhaps am being stubborn and a bit dumb overall. But some days, I feel the privilege in the very fibre of my being. I am made by and made of caste, class, gender injustice. It runs in my veins, and that is why perhaps the level of self-negation that reverses the most intrinsic drive towards happiness is the only thing that feels appropriate. Ayn Rand is turning in her grave. I get it, self-negation is not the best or most effective approach, but sometimes it's all that feels okay.

I don’t hope to score any woke-points by reveling in this feeling. In fact, I’m fairly well insulated from confronting these voices day in and day out, and that too, now that I think about it, is by design. A broker showed us a flat once in Delhi that we loved. Marble flooring, newly painted, air conditioned - it was perfect. I then ventured into the balcony. It was the biggest, most spacious balcony we’d seen till then, but the view - right in front of us, slums as far as the eye can see. It was a deal-breaker. It would permanently be a truth in my face that on most days, I want to repress for the sake of my sanity. And so we now have a smaller house, but at least you can look at trees and the garden and other rich people and feel alright. 

For the privileged, happiness lies in hiding from the world. Some of us have gotten very, very good at it, and others not so much. But that is to say that our happiness is a lie, that if we insisted on being in full awareness of the world around us, our happiness would perhaps die out and be replaced by something that feels like sobriety. Our eyes would carry the depth of suffering this world can inflict upon you, and be guilty and grateful at the same time for being protected from it. It would infuse humility, and compassion, and an infinite ability to give. As my friend likes to say, what do we owe and who do we owe it to?

And that’s all good. It's good to be conscious of privilege and in service of the oppressed and all that. But I also enjoy my air conditioned room and my fancy laptop and water that’s only slightly cold and feels heavenly to drink, and I want to keep myself hydrated and upbeat so I might just drink 4 litres of it. I don’t know if it's okay, but I’d like not to think about that for a while. And maybe I’ll even take a thousand words or so to tell you about it and you’ll read it instead of the experiences of someone less privileged and it won’t be okay. And it's not. And I feel bad about it. So I guess I’m gonna stop. 

