---
layout: post
categories: blog
title: 'Adulting 101'
published: true
---
When you’re thirteen year old, there is nothing that could get more glimmer in your eyes than to imagine being 23. No fixed bedtime, as much pizza as you want, a PS4 with the latest FIFA. And then you wonder - the adults around you aren’t nearly in as bed-jumpy a mood as they should be. Perhaps they just don’t know how to appreciate the fine pleasures of life, you think. When you turn 23, you will teach them how to really do this adulting thing. 

There is always a forewarning in the dark circles of death around their eyes. It's not as fun as you imagine. But there is also the undefeatable hope and happiness of a new entrant into the world. The toning down of this hope, of the bed-jumpy impulsiveness, is the process of maturity. And it makes sense. Only a child can dance around in front of a black hole. When you start to understand the enormous suffering it can bring forth, your legs weaken a little bit. A chair starts to seem like a nice perk. You like the blue one, but eh, it costs a bit much. You can do without it.
 
Adult life in the one year I have lived it, has given me a lot, but has also taken away; as much? more? It's tough to say. As an adult, transactions with life are all too precious, all priceless. What would you give to keep your passion? What would you take in exchange for your friends? What is a fair barter for, well, yourself? Spoiler for that last one - Nothing. Nada. Nuh-uh. 

Here’s how to 23, okay? Some people don’t get it, so let me tell you - Get a job through which you can afford something just maybe one step lower than the lifestyle you’ve grown up in. Okay. Oh, and don’t forget to work for your passion. Never ever give up on what you’re passionate about, okay? That’s what matters most. Forget about the money. Okay but don’t totally forget.  You still have to pay rent for your new house. Just lie on the floor and stare at the ceiling till the mattress is delivered. And put up some fairy lights so it feels like home. Also, eventually make some friends around you so you don’t get terribly lonely. You have some from before? In the same city? Okay Mr. Lucky. Your mattress is here. Buy bedsheets soon. Order some takeout. It's 10 already?, You really should sleep. You’ve to report to work early tomorrow. Pick up a novel, but wait - There’s water seeping in through the bedroom door? What? The hall is flooded. It's coming from the kitchen. From behind the cabinets? It looks like a pipe broke. Maybe stuff a cloth there. Are you stupid? You don’t know how this works. Freak the fuck out. Pack your things, and lock the door behind you. This is no good. Just, just go back home. 

No. How weak are you? Stop being so dramatic. Go ask the neighbour for the plumber’s phone number. Call him. He says he can come tomorrow. Beg him. He’ll come in an hour. Okay. Just wipe the floor a bit in the kitchen. Hold the pipe and sit down on the wiped part of the floor. Scroll through Facebook with your other hand. It's okay. The plumber is here. He’s fixed it. You can go to sleep now. 

More than anything else, adulting feels tiring. The weight of responsibilities is immense, and you’re not trained for it. But that’s okay. It's a muscle, and it develops as it's exerted. You get good at it too. There’s a rush in being on top of adult life. You get stronger and the challenges get harder. It's the exact formula for an addictive game. But the thing is, as an adult, you have to always be careful. Because there’s so much you could lose - Earphones, credit cards, yourself. 

When you are only responding to the urgencies of the world for a long enough time, that is who you become - simply an adequate response to the world’s demands. You get up on time, brush, cook your food, get to work, socialize a bit after, and come back home to sleep. If ever there’s the need again and you’re particularly handsy, perhaps you can fix broken pipes by yourself. But then all you are is perhaps a bit peculiar, not by any means an individual. What was so exciting about adult life when you were thirteen was that you would get to be yourself. What happened to that? You stopped wondering. There was just no time left after fixing the broken pipes.

The hero you will identify with most as a newly-minted adult will perhaps be Sisyphus. To take the rock up the boulder, roll it back down, and do it all over again, day in and day out. It's a heroic act, and there is deep respect to be had for those who do it with grit and conviction. But that’s not all there is in adult life, not for you. Your task is far more difficult. You have to respond to the world’s demands—there is no way out—but also, make some demands of your own. If, after the nightmare of adult responsibilities, you can’t find the time and the energy to cherish its freedoms - to figure out how you want to exist in this world - then you have been shortchanged, my friend. The game is just not worth playing. 

Read a book. Go climbing. Take a course. Cook a new dish. Write. Paint. Go on a date. Love. Order pizza. Order more pizza. And garlic bread too, with cheesy dip. Laugh. Hug your friends. Drink chai with elaichi. Go to the hills. Protest. Get detained. Snuggle in a blanket. Drink green tea on the balcony. Breathe. Deeply. Take some space in the world. More of it. Yes, even more. Its okay. It’ll be okay.
